PREFACE. XV

College Oxford, als0 possess porticos of our Au-
thor's History, the latter the reign of Edward
ΙΙΙ, In G. G. C. Cambridge there is a complete
copy as sar as the year 1312 written 011 paper
in a late hand.

always been deservedly considered as the best;
and all various readings of the Lansdown and
Cotton MSS. which could be considered as use·

ful h'ave been given in loct-notes,

In the Chronology of* his History Heming- ·

burgh pursues no unisorm system, but, following
the various sources of his information, com·
mences the year sometimes in January, some-
times in March. For the sake of convenience,
therefore, the actual date has been inserted in
the margin, according to the present division of
time; and when the date of the month on which
any particular event occurred is stated by Hem·
ingburgh, the day ol the week has frequently
been calculated, and added as a side-note.
This, it is hoped, will be found usesul by those
who may have need to verisy the accuracy os the
date ascribed by historiens to any event; as,
while some chroniclers state the date of the
month, others inform us the day of the week on
which such event occurred, and the concordance
or disagreement of two or more authorities on
this point may in general be considered a good
test ol the truth or uncertainty of such date.

It is my pleasing duty to return my sincere
thanks to Sir Charles G. Young, F. S. Α., Garter
King of Arme, arrd the Collega of Heralds, sor
their kindness in granting me permission to
make use of the valuable'manuscript which forms
the text os this edition. My best thanks are also

 

